We have the functionality to click on
the button and start keeping some data,
in memory or at least, not the old ones,
but the latest ones in memory.
And we have our function to get the image.
So maybe below we have a training button
that we declared at the beginning here
to start the training.
So we're going to add a onClick event so
train button.
Once we're ready to train,
we have an async function.
And we are going to call
the function we haven't called yet.
Basically, we're gonna call it train.
And what we want is to maybe update
the UI as well to say that now we're
kind of in training mode.
So the status element, we were hiding
it before when the model was loaded,
so now we can just bring it back.
But just change, its innerHTML.
So we have statusElement, innerHTML,
and just gonna set it to training.
So, we have a function that we need to
declare, but at least the UI is updating
to tell the users like, wait a minute,
I'm training, basically.
Okay, so
now let's create our train function.
And this is where we're
gonna declare a new model.
So const train and
then I'm opening function here.
And because we're just
starting the train function,
what I want is to set my isTraining
variable to true this time.
And before I move on,
very important before we crash
everyone's browser is that
remember a little bit earlier when
I'm setting mouse down here
when I'm adding the example.
Let's make sure that when we have
an on mouse up event as well,
we're actually setting
that mouse down to false.
Otherwise we'll be stuck in a loop for
long time.
So if you find, again, that block or
you can write it anywhere.
But I just like to keep it together.
So here in the buttons container,
we have an unmatched up.
So once we stop actually
pressing that button,
we're just want to set that
variable back to false.
So that means that once we
stop clicking on the button,
the mouse down will not be false.
And we will not be stuck
forever into this loop.
I've done that before and
it crashed my browser.
So that's what I'm telling you.
We can now go back to our
training function, okay?
So here we're setting
isTraining to true and
maybe the first thing we wanna do.
I like doing that it's not mandatory.
But usually I say, okay,
if, oops, not that.
If there is no examples
that we already added,
I just want to either console.error or
anything.
And I want to tell the user you forgot
to add examples before training.
Because if you call this, and
actually you should probably
throw this error cuz we want
to stop the rest of the logic.
It's not gonna do anything if it's
gonna try to create a model and
training on data that does not exist.
So if the user did not yet
created or added some examples in
the function that we created here,
we should tell the user, stop.
And yeah, and then hopefully
the user will add some examples and
then we'll be able to run the training.
So okay, we are slowly getting there.
Okay, so to be able to train something,
we need something to train.
So we need a model.
So at the beginning we created
a variable called newModels.
So now we're gonna actually do something
with it, and this is where you're going to
see the syntax on how to actually
create a TensorFlow.js model.
So we have our new model variable, and
I was talking a little bit earlier about
the two types of models,
like sequential and functional.
So here we're going to create
a sequential model, and
we're gonna add multiple layers.
So the way you do this is tf.sequential.
And this going to take an object here, and
the parameter that we're
gonna pass it is layers.
So we have a layer, and that's going
to be an array of TensorFlow.js layers.
So first of all,
we are going to pass it something
related to the initial
model that we had at first.
So we have tf.layers.
It's like how you start to create layers.
And the way that the did it.
The first layer is flattened and
the inputShape is going be
what is expected by MobileNet.
Because again,
we're building on top of that model.
So we have the initial model,
oops, initialModel.
And the output of this model's outputs,
and then we are shape and slice.
So that will return to you the input
shape that is expected by
the next layer of the model.
So it is a bit complicated.
It's not really something
that you can know at first.
It's just, to me, I just know that
that worked for my application.
But there are times when you might have to
try different methods on the object and
seeing.
So we have, in the very first layer,
we kinda have an input shape of
what's expected from MobileNet.
And then we can create another layer
that starts to be a bit more custom.
So we can do tf.layers and
that's gonna be a dense layer.
And that's the ones I've
mostly worked with as well.
But there's different parameters that
you can start to set into this layer.
And it's kind of related to what I was
talking when I introduced this section
about activation and things like that.
So first of all, we have units,
which is the dense units here,
the variable that we declared at
the top that I think was set to 100.
Let me scroll back.
Yes, so it's like we're kind of
expecting that the output of
the first layer is going to be 100 units.
And they're gonna be fed
into the second layer.
And here we have
an activation function that
is going to be set to relu and
I forgot what
relu means let me maybe
check quickly can I.
I know that sometimes it's
a rectified linear unit.
So sometimes because it's all about
data and algorithms and stuff.
Sometimes you might not know
exactly what they do, but
you might know the ones that you want
to use depending on your application.
So it's been a trial and
error thing as well for this.
But for now let's use that one.
Again, then we have a next parameter
that's called kernelInitializer, and
this is also,
I think it's varianceScaling.
And these ones as well, sometimes I do
not know exactly why they're better.
But I know that in the context of doing
transfer learning this has worked for me.
I think tomorrow when you create our own
model and we have different parameters,
we can try and see what works better.
But for now, we're gonna use that one and
useBias is a habit set to true.
Let me check.
Okay, bias vector.
I'm not sure that's
necessarily completely needed.
Let's leave it to true.
Use, sorry, not us.
Use and it could be fun to actually
see we're gonna make this thing work.
And then we can try and tweak some
parameters and see if maybe when we set it
to false, it changes the output or
things like this, okay?
So we need one more layer because
at this point, we need the units.
You want your last layer to have a number
of units that's equals to the number of
labels.
So here, 100 is too much because
our labels are only two.
So we're gonna just create one last layer.
You could have a lot more,
if you if you want, as well, tf.layers.
But in this case here, we're not gonna do
too much, we're just gonna have three.
And as I said, the units here is supposed
to be the number of output based on
the labels, at least for the last layer.
So we have a labels, so it should be two.
And then in terms of kernel initializer,
we're just gonna use the same.
Let's keep it simple.
Maybe we can also use bias
as the same value as well.
And in terms of activation, for
example, for that particular layer,
I use softmax, but
it would be fun to try it, okay?
Does using actually don't know yeah.
So we can try with this and then tweak and
that's what is usually called
kind of parameter tuning
is that you try different things and
see what works better for your model